# Logic

There's a dream I often have (I've had it about three times a week for
the last twenty years). There are two humans, one male and one female,
standing in a forest. I know that the forest is in upstate New York
(U.S.A.), though I can unfortunately be no more specific than that,
and really it's not even clear to me how I know that the forest is
where I say it is. The man is leaning against one of the hundreds of
trees surrounding them; he is playing a worn acoustic guitar and is
singing. The woman is roughly two paces away, facing the man, and is
singing too. From the position and movement of the sun I've deduced
that it's around 4:30pm and that the slight breeze is entering the
scene from the northeast. The humans play a single song: this is the
dream.

I suppose this puts me in better position than the countless children
paralyzed by recurring nightmares, or the countless parents therefore
suffering from parades of sleepless nights. But, of course, such
comparisons are arbitrary and meaningless. There are millions and
millions of dimensions along which I might compare myself and little
nightmare-plagued Billy, and how could I ever decide on the relative
values of all of these dimensions? In one dimension I am listening to
quiet folk music in the midst of a forest while Billy escapes the
grasp of a vegetable-shaped monster. In another, Billy wakes up to a
mother's soft lullaby while I drift from one inky nothingness into
another into another.

* * *

Two humans stand in the autumn of a New York forest. Radically old
wood towers around them; equally old wood lies hollowed, carved, and
stringed in the arms of one. The wood and the strings and the humans
vibrate. Listen: the vibrations are in New York and in your bedroom
and ripple out from your heart and for two moments you feel the beauty
of evolution, history, time, entropy, everything which created a
species that stands in melody and harmony among shimmering sunlight
and dancing leaves. And forget the two subsequent moments of cynicism,
for it is not actually True that the bacteria and the insects have as
much claim to the Earth as you. The Earth pulses with the beat of your
music. And forget the two subsubsequent moments during which you
realize that maybe the insects think they are making music too because
what is music and maybe we are just insects and...

Do not deduce yourself out of the Truth. Remember beauty and
vibrations and your heart. Remember.
